Thank you.
Thank you for taking the time to talk with Isabella Mussolini.
We just want to start.
I guess with the title, Some of Me, tell me why it's some of you and not... All of me.
Not all of you, or most of me, you know.
Because it is just some of me.
The book is not an autobiography.
Random House calls it a memoir.
But I...
I think it was difficult to classify it, and that's why they call it a memoir, because it was the closest thing.
But it is a mixture of memories and a mixture of reflective things on the work that I have done, some anecdotes, and some
There are some things that are also a fantasy, like I have some of the directors that I've worked with or my father discuss film styling, you know, making up a conversation that never took place, but just, because I just heard individual talks to me, but I never talked to one another because they've never met.
So part of the book is also fictional.
It's very interesting because I, there was a,
a feature on this book on Salon.
Have you ever heard of that?
I had just recently heard of it, but it's an online magazine.
It's on print.
But they had some very interesting interviews, and they identified this as a novel.
And I said, this is... I couldn't understand why they... Oh, yes, because probably of the fictional part of it, which is a great deal of it.
But nevertheless, it is... I guess it really defies classification, doesn't it?
A little bit.
You know, it was hard to define.
So for random, it's a memoir.
For other, it's a novel.
A novel, I think, is a bit far.
And also autobiography, as far as an autobiography, too.
So why did you want to challenge these guidelines?
Why not do a novel as a novel and do a memoir as a novel?
Because probably I'm not a writer, you know.
So I just wrote what was interesting to me.
You know, I think a writer would probably...
know how to write an autobiography or how to write a memoir or something like that, I was solicited to do a book on style or a collection of photography or an autobiography and none of it interested me because, you know, about style I didn't, I feel that there are so many books out there about style and they're hard to find something that is really serious and
you know, they all seem a bit superficial, and in the autobiography there seem to be also so many, and you know, I fear that I just fall into the trap of really people wanting to know what you don't want to reveal and interfere with your life and privacy.
In the book of photography, you know, I'm very proud of my work as a model, but I think the photography really belongs more to the photographer
than to me, so it wasn't going to be a representative of my work, you know, it was going to be representative of their work.
I think my lawyer said, but you always turn down everything that people come, not too many people have offers to do books, so think of something that you would like to do instead of just saying, no, because this is, you know, having a negative attitude.
So I started to write, and I didn't know where I was going, I started to write what I thought was interesting.
And that became some of me.
I didn't think, let me write something that is another, you know, I just wrote what I thought was interesting.
She really just started writing, and what emerged, emerged.
I think really what interests, truly interests me, I mean, I do a weekly literary piece, I've been doing it for 20 years.
I routinely stay away from the celebrity book, you know.
My daughters can't understand how I
But this one has some substance to it, if I may say so.
Oh, great.
I like the fact that there is an apparent paradox.
Here you are, a beautiful woman, you know, and you are certainly known for your modeling and for your acting and for your glamorous parents, but yet you are giving, some of you, if not all of you, you are making an attempt, I think, to penetrate yourself and to give a piece of yourself.
Well, you know,
I don't know.
You probably know more about literature than I. I thought it was interesting, for example, when I talk about Marty or my father or David Lynch, the director that I've worked.
It was more interesting to me to do a portrait to describe how it was to work with them or to describe what was their discussion that they had in a way that it was intimate, but that it wasn't indiscreet.
You know, I didn't want to discuss
why we broke up, why we divorced, it also seemed to me like those are fake intimacies, you know, people think they know about people if they know those facts, but you just have a police report, you know, you don't really have, so I hope that my book is personal, in a sense that it is a close insight into these people's idea, because they have great minds, you know, and some of them are
like Richard Avedon or Stephen Mizell, a chess photographer that I've worked with, so they are friends.
And Avedon, I wouldn't even call a friend because it's somebody that I revered a great deal, but he might kind of a friend, but I mean, another generation and a great maestro.
But I thought I was going to give, I can't truly do a full portrait of Avedon, but I can explain how he directs.
in a photo session.
What do you feel when you are direct, when you're photographed by him?
Is it different than being photographed by another photographer?
All that seemed to me interesting.
The other person that helped me finding out what was interesting was Bob Gottlieb, who was my editor, because I often came to Bob and said, do you think this would be interesting?
And Bob would say, yes or no.
And I went a little bit
You know, like the discussion about the camera movement that I have between my father and Martin and how stupefied I was.
Because when I grew up, my father talked about the camera being at the eye level and the camera, that anything that the camera did that was just an enhanced human eye was trickery.
It was manipulating your audience.
So in a way, it was to be condemned, morally condemned.
So camera movement, I grew up thinking that, you know, if a film had any elegance, he had this kind of static quality because anything else was trickery and anything that is trickery is a lack of style or a cover-up's holes or he manipulates whoever is there witnessing it.
And when I went to see Marty's film, when I went to visit him on the set the first time and I saw that the camera was
loved the actor.
I said, what kind of eye could it be that?
You know, it's only the point of view of a fly.
And I became so frightened to go home.
And they were going to tell me, well, what did you see today at my Halle Martin set?
And I was going to say, well, the camera is where a fly is going to be.
Forget the eye.
I don't know what he's doing.
I don't know what he's trying to do.
And I was telling that to Bob as, you know, just talking about movies.
And he said, that is interesting.
Why don't you put that in your book?
And I said, well, I thought that was
It's either too complex, because you have to be a filmmaker or a film buff to know that director grow to the greatest extent of trying to figure it out, not how to film a scene, but have to have the style of their own, almost like a writer chooses word or the length of their sentences or the rhythm to the page is the same way you move the camera.
So Bob was helpful that way.
Talk to me about dedicating the book to your ghosts.
That came at the end, because Leanda was telling me, did you write a forward page?
I said, no.
Did you write all these things that writers do?
I felt so embarrassed.
And they said, do you dedicate the book to anybody?
And I said, that would sound so pretentious that I dedicate my work.
I'm not a writer.
And then I thought, well, maybe my ghost, so people will have a...
a glimpse into that this is not an autobiography or... because the greatest fear I had before the book came out is generally people expect for people either to write an autobiography or a book on how to put together a wardrobe, you know?
So I thought, well, maybe to my ghost, we'll give it an indication that there is surrealism in this.
Well, and you say immediately...
You thank your friends and your family for putting up, even in this book, with your lies and exaggerations.
Exactly.
And I say, wait, the central conundrum of this book is the author's, how do I go, the author's frank admission that she has trouble telling the truth.
Maybe you could just talk about what kind of lies we're talking about.
I don't think we're talking about deep moral lies.
Lies and great moral consequences.
I think we're talking about the book.
I think I call lie my attempt to fiction, if you want, because fiction seems a word too important to apply to my book.
But I think I used the fantasy conversation.
Those are lies, if you want, because they didn't take place, though I do say in the book, because I'm an imaginary conversation with people who died, so they can't be here, though I wish that I had.
that this conversation had happened, so since I wish it happened, I make it up.
I fulfill my desires.
And occasionally I lie in the book, and later on in the page, a few pages later, I confess to... Well, maybe the four Oscars is really three Oscars.
Exactly.
Actually, yes, that was the first lie.
And then a lie about Richard Avedon being able to know what I was thinking.
and then later on I confessed into the book, he didn't really know what I was thinking, but he liked a certain expression that I have, and he could tell if I was, you know, he could tell, he couldn't tell exactly what I was thinking, but he could tell that my expression changed, and he would say, change your thinking, because he didn't like what that thought gave me as a face.
But in the book I lie a little bit, exaggerate, he's penetrating my mind, because I say I wanted to give you
that, oh, a surprise that I have had when I was trying to just be obedient and just look right and left and he was giving me the indication.
And then when I understood that he was photographing my emotion and my thought, I understood, oh, that's what I have to do as a model.
I don't have to just stand there pretty.
I wasn't going to be hired if I didn't think I was pretty and if they hadn't worked on me for five hours to making me the most enhanced version of me that could exist.
That wasn't my responsibility to just patiently be seated and be created into this character.
What I had to offer was emotions.
And so when I understood that, that's what hooked me to modeling.
That's what made it interesting.
Otherwise, it's just an exercise of obedience.
What is it about modeling that continues to fascinate you?
Well, I think there's two things.
First of all, I don't see it very differently than acting.
I think they're very similar.
And then I think what he sees fascinating to me is that without a story, without the soundtrack, without the dialogue, without another actor to react to, but in one frame, a photo that is a successful photo exudes an emotion.
And to me, why does that is a great mystery.
I'm fascinated with this ability that photographers have to capture something.
And I think that when you do
fashion and cosmetic photo, people assume that it is the beauty of the girl.
I was just about to say, is the perception of beauty essential to success?
I think they just use beautiful girls, but I think that what makes that photo unforgettable is the emotion that there is in the photo, because you can see a lot of photos that are of beautiful girls, the calendar, the kind of photos that you see that are beautiful, their bodies are beautiful, their faces are beautiful, and yet
You look, you say, wow, and then you forget them.
You totally forget them.
Exactly.
You know, but what Avedon does, I think, he photographs beyond that beauty.
You know, he photographs an emotion.
And he makes a work of art out of it.
It's not merely something that sells a product.
Absolutely.
You know, absolutely.
And it seems to me that your former employers at Lancôme didn't understand that, did they?
They didn't appreciate it.
Well, I think they did appreciate it, at least until, you know,
I think they did appreciate it, and there was a great debate at Lancôme of why we had been so successful.
It surprised both of us that the campaign was very successful.
And I think that the campaign was successful because even if some photos were a little bit more remote than others, on the overall, the campaign had feelings, had a warmth.
that generally cosmetic campaigns don't have.
And I think that's what made it very successful.
I had retained in my contract the consultation right of who to work with.
And since I absolutely just knew that what made a great photo was emotion and not beauty, I always insisted that the photographer be the photographer that photographs that.
And I think that's what made the campaign successful and standing out from other cosmetic campaigns.
It can be quite flat, you know, it could be, I don't know, it could be quite flat, I think.
It is quite a commentary, though, that... Go ahead, Liz.
No, no, I thought that my coffee was already here, because I'm hallucinating, but then I saw water.
That, you know, at the age of 40, I guess that was the cutoff, right?
Yes.
Well, I think, you know, unfortunately, in the industry of cosmetic and fashion... And even in acting, unfortunately, for women.
Even in acting, and even on television.
You know, a lot of women reporters had asked me that question, as if, like, how dare Lancome do... And then, you know, I said, well, you are in the same business.
We don't see a woman 50 years old being a reporter on television.
Not on television, no.
No, no.
If you're not seen, you're going to be old.
But if you're seen, you don't see old people or middle-aged people.
And that is something that is telling to our society, whether it is right or wrong.
I don't know.
It seems a little sadistic.
But even if it's successful, I mean... That's the thing that surprised me.
They have not discerned any...
Any reduction of the sales?
I mean, there was no loss in market share or anything like that.
Exactly.
They said to me that they feared that on the long run, and they had to take a very futuristic, you know, they couldn't just do by the marketing research that might give them an indication of what to do in the next six months to two years, but that in the long run, you know, four or five years down the road, I was going to be a problem because of my age.
They said that in an ad campaign, what is the responsibility is to represent the dream, not to represent the reality.
The fact that women identify with me because I was middle-aged might have been a reassuring thought, but a campaign has to represent the dream.
And in their marketing research, women say, what we dream is to be young.
then you have to represent that dream with a younger person.
That's the way they argue it.
Unless they're selling a particular product specifically designed to make an older woman look young.
Yes, occasionally, not Lancome, but occasionally other cosmetic companies like Estee Lauder or Revlon have used recently Lauren Hafton.
who had been like me, you know, somebody who stayed 10 years representing Ultima, and then they dropped her, I think, before 40, and then brought her back when she was 50 for the anti-age cream.
And I think they do sell, you know, for a while, but I think they still create this kind of aura of the dream.
I argued, and I am still convinced I'm right,
that if you ask people, would you like to be old or young, they say young, as if you ask a person, would you like to be rich or poor, they say rich.
But there is an articulation.
If they say, would you like to be rich, but don't do the job you like, then they probably say, no, maybe somewhere in between, you know.
The same thing is with, you know, if you ask a person, would you like to be young, they say young.
But I think if you ask them deeper, there is an articulation to the young.
Oh, that's exactly right.
And I think that people want energy, they want to be healthy, they want to fulfill their curiosity.
I think it's less important.
But you don't want to give up the wisdom that if you gather, if you've accumulated wisdom in your years, you know, if you're much smarter now than you were 15 or 20 years ago, you don't want to give that end of it up, do you?
No, no, no.
Yesterday a journalist, I asked her, you know, she asked me this question.
I asked her, what would be your dream?
And she said, she was a woman in her 40s, she said, I would like to have the wisdom that I have today, but my body of 25.
And that's pretty much, you know, it's true.
That is what people wish.
But since we all know we can't have that, what then?
Could it be another dream?
You know, it's fascinating to me.
I'm not asking you any of the questions that everybody always asks you.
I want to do outline in the book.
But it is very interesting to me that you define them by demographics.
That's wonderful.
It really is.
I like that.
It really does identify not only how far-reaching your popularity is, but the different groups, the segments that you can identify strictly by the question that they ask.
That's wonderful.
I guess, are you familiar with a woman named Alice James?
She was the youngest, the sister of Henry James and William James.
And she wrote a diary.
And basically, she's the modern example of what it's like to grow up as the sibling of towering.
Ah, enough to read it.
Of towering.
You know, a towering writer on the one hand and a psychologist on the other.
In your case, for instance, you had not only a magnificently...
talented and beautiful mother, but a fantastically talented and capable father.
And you chose to nevertheless still go into a parallel kind of profession.
You weren't intimidated at all?
Oh, yes, I was.
And how?
That's why I became a model only at 28, and I sat actually at 32 because of that, you know.
I think, yes.
Maybe I'm misreading it.
No.
In the book, I cut down the complaint as much as I could.
No, I was terribly intimidated, and I started to work mostly as a journalist for a comedy show so that my interviews were very light and comical.
And I had done that for eight years until I became a model just by chance.
And the modeling seemed very far from film at the time.
The reason I like modeling so much is that it probably was so remote also from my family.
I found then similarities as I've gotten to know the job that I said, well, there's some acting in modeling, you know, or there is some... And also, somehow, thank you.
And somehow, the people in the fashion world and
entertainment world overlap socially, but there are also great differences.
And I think one of the reasons why I always felt very attached to the fashion world was that it was my world, you know, it was the world.
Interesting, yeah.
You have a twin sister, though.
Yes.
And you say if you weren't twins, you would never have met.
Explain that, if you could.
Here you are, twins, and she's a medievalist, is that right?
Yes, she's a medievalist.
I'm writing a book that is paying a lot of attention to medieval manuscripts, and when I read that she's a medievalist, I thought that was very interesting.
Yeah, she has a PhD in medieval literature.
Really?
And is she here in the United States?
Yes, at Columbia University.
She's a scholar.
But I think, you know, I have to say, maybe that goes to...
my parents' credit.
We were seven, and all of us are doing something different and what we like.
Somehow, you know, my sister Pia became a journalist, and then she ended up being a film critic.
In New York.
I met your sister when she was a journalist in San Francisco.
Oh, really?
Yes.
Many years ago.
I was a young junior officer on an aircraft carrier.
Really?
In San Francisco, and she
That's how she started.
That's right.
She came out and did a story on my ship, and I was the public affairs officer.
I remember showing her around and seeing the thing, and that was Pia Lindstrom, that was Ingrid Bergman's daughter, and that was kind of cool.
So I met your sister, if only for, you know, half an hour.
And then there is Ingrid, and my brother is a businessman, and then I have another sister who is a dancer.
and she went to live in Latin America, she lives in Venezuela, and she's a quite known dancer.
She has a very avant-garde dance company, and she travels to Argentina, Chile, she tours all the time.
You see, what this suggests is that, you know, all of the children didn't seem to be damaged at all by having these extraordinarily famous parents.
I think we were, yes.
It's obvious from the achievements, you know, and that they're so different, and that everybody isn't trying to emulate
No, I don't think so.
Not even you.
No, I don't know if it is that, because sometimes in America, people in the film business, they are placed in a social scale that is so high.
I know that it is less in Europe, so I don't know if that helped.
Growing up in Europe, we just had successful parents in their business, but somewhat.
You're not a godlike figure if you're a director or an actress.
Actually, directors a little bit, I've got to say.
The director is actually held in a higher... More than actors, oh yes, in Europe, you know.
In fact, when I say at the beginning of my book, somebody says, you know, you are Roberto Rossellini's daughter.
I know that he's from Europe, because you're... Or at least a lover of... Somebody who adopted European manners and culture.
How about has an appreciation for fine film for...
the cerebral qualities.
Yes.
You did a movie with, God, I can't remember the name of it, but it was with Goldie Hawn.
Death Becomes.
That's right, but the whole theme there was the image and staying young forever.
Oh, absolutely.
And that must have been, you know, that was an interesting exercise.
It's very popular in the fashion world, that film, because it...
I wanted so much to do it because it amused me that I had been for so many years representing that, you know, representing creams.
You are the bearer of the magic magic.
Absolutely.
I've read the script.
My agent sent it to me, and I said, oh, I have to do this part.
And I was the first one that went and tested for Robert Zemak.
Really?
Robert Zemak said, I have to see other people, too.
And I was very disappointed because I thought, well...
He did it instantly, yeah.
You know, they forget.
If I'm the first one, by the time they've seen 200, they forget the first one, even if you're good.
He said he remembered it, and he offered me the part two months later.
But it's almost exactly the kind of thing we're talking about, if you could stay young forever.
Absolutely.
And of course, it's very comical.
Tragic consequences.
But you know, there is a line that I say in the book that often people yell at me in the street, which is, screw the natural law, because the natural law is to grow old and accept it.
And people in this room sometimes say, screw the natural law.
I'm quoting the film.
It doesn't seem to bother you, though.
If it does, you certainly... It hasn't.
Right now, it hasn't.
A little bit.
You know, a little bit is all this discussion about Lancome, that let me go, and all that.
I'm a little bit afraid to bore people.
It seems like a broken record.
Every time, I'm afraid that then one day people say, oh, enough with that complaint.
But it isn't me.
It just seemed, I cannot tell you how many people today at the bookstore, almost every other woman that came up said, I'm against Lancôme.
Okay, they do that for you.
And I wished in a way to say, well, but life goes on.
They go on, I go on.
Maybe it's a mistake.
Maybe it was right.
I don't know.
Meanwhile,
Right now, I'm sorry.
So what do you see for yourself in terms of your professional development?
Because life does go on, and you can't be the Lancome girl.
Yeah, no, no.
Well, you know, in that domain, I was going to try to develop my own line of cosmetic.
It has been pretty interesting.
It has been a very slow process, because the money that you need to gather...
to do an international campaign are way beyond any film.
So up to now, I've really mostly talked to investors.
But it was interesting, because I've never been in that position.
So it was a businesswoman.
Yes.
So it was kind of interesting to discover it.
But then, you know, I think I'll do films.
I think I'll do more films.
And I liked, you know what I liked about writing?
When I was little, I always thought I was going to be a film director, like my dad.
And I wanted to do films on animal behavior, because I was always interested in animal behavior there.
I do talk about animals.
You do, and they share space with the ghosts, as a matter of fact.
Right.
And then when I saw the bugs eating my mother's plant, and then I got involved in their life and sex life, and my mother's, Ingrid Bergman, roses, died.
So when I was a child, I was hoping to...
to become a feature director, to be able to write feature story, but with an animal behavior, not documentary, but feature story.
Now, that never became a reality, mostly because I think I didn't take the time to even attempt to write a script about animal behavior, or maybe it's impossible to do, or maybe the other thing came to me and took me out of my path.
But what I enjoyed when I wrote the book, I enjoyed the fact that often when you work as an actress or as a model, you cater to somebody else's idea, and you never know what they're going to use of you.
You never know which one of the take they're going to take.
They sometimes print the take you don't want, or you feel ashamed.
Same thing when you take a photo.
You know, you offer yourself, but you can make a mistake, and the photographer might like that one.
And the selection is theirs.
The selection is theirs.
You're getting paid for your time.
Exactly.
You know, you have to make yourself available and hopefully interpret their thoughts.
When I wrote the book, I have to say that I didn't know that you have so much control.
It's wonderful, isn't it?
People call me and say, how do you want to call it?
I said, the title, I have to find the title.
Don't you do a marketing research first?
And then decide which one would be the title?
Don't you have the marketing people decide?
Then they call me and they say, well, how do you want the cover?
The cover, I said, do I have to find, you're asking me, you want me to find the cover?
I couldn't believe that a book, there was so much control.
And it was fun, not for the control, but it was fun to...
I have to say that there is not one word in this book that I can disclaim, or I have to say, I wish I didn't do that, or about every film I've done, you know, you say, well, overall it's nice, but I wish they haven't cut that scene, or I wish that... This is yours.
Yes, this is mine.
It's a good feeling, isn't it?
It's a good feeling, you know, unless you bore people, and they don't have to buy you then.
But then they won't.
I had a book published two years ago, and it was a...
It's had six printings.
It was a finalist for the National Book Critics or a board.
It was huge.
It was 638 pages.
And, you know, you approve... Once you wrote, you wrote.
I wrote.
But you approve everything, and you give permission, and they don't change a damn thing unless... No.
Unless we discuss it.
Exactly.
Isn't that wonderful?
It is wonderful.
And I like that.
And you talk about the pleasures of getting older.
That's the kind of thing.
Exactly.
You're going in the right direction.
You're really going to be in a position where you can use your head.
And you don't rely entirely on... You know what it was?
Exactly.
More than...
More than the sense of power, of control, it wasn't that the sense of satisfaction.
I felt fully engaged.
Sometimes when you're an actress, you're engaged the moment you act, but then a lot of the time you just wait around for your turn.
Same thing as a model.
You're not completely engaged.
There are moments where you say, oh, this is so great.
But many days and many hours are just, you are obediently waiting, just making yourself available.
And this was very wonderful because it engaged everything of me, you know, my mind, my humor, my memories.
It was very engaging, engaging.
And nobody was really telling you what to do.
No.
You're waiting as a model.
Finally, your time comes, and they instruct you as to what they want and what they would like you to do for them.
Exactly.
You're doing this for yourself, I would guess.
Yes.
And you wrote it yourself.
We should make it very clear.
Yes.
you know, what happens today, this is very unusual.
I mean, most of these, quote, celebrity books are really not written by the individuals themselves, which I guess is another reason I'm here.
I'm not interested in talking to people who dictate their books to other people.
Yes, I couldn't believe that, because I heard that.
It's remarkable.
But even autobiographies, I mean, to an extent.
Oh, indeed.
And I was looking throughout here to see who the
who you were thanking.
And you were the only one you thanked was Bob Gottlieb, who is one of the great, you know, one of the great editors.
Yes.
So you were very, very lucky to have him.
Very lucky.
But you know, I didn't expect to have him.
I knew Bob Gottlieb because Bob Gottlieb's best friend was Irene Selznick, David Selznick's wife.
And Irene was my mother's best friend.
When Irene and my mother died,
I had all Irene's letter that Irene wrote to my mother.
I inherited my mother's archive.
And Bob inherited Irene's archive, so he had all my mother's letter.
So we called to exchange letters, and then we put them in all, and we read this fantastic correspondence between these two great labels.
Have you published any of that?
No, we haven't.
You know, we haven't.
Is it worth publishing?
Is it good?
Probably you need to add more things, because a lot of it is how is the children and... Yeah, well, I mean, you certainly would edit out the minutiae, as we say, but is there a narrative there?
Not really.
No, I don't think so.
There's a book that was just published that compares Virginia Woolf's diary and Catherine Mansfield's diary, and they were very good friends.
And they were writing in their diaries about each other.
Right.
And that's kind of interesting.
I think some work would have to be done.
You know, Mother kept a diary.
And, you know, I think with the correspondence, the diary, maybe other letter to David Selznick and other people of the time.
But Mother wrote a very beautiful autobiography, and so did Irene, so that we felt that, you know, we never thought about it.
And this probably doesn't add any additional insight to what they already wrote in their autobiography.
Exactly.
No.
But that's how I met Bob, and when I wrote, you know, when I said to you that my lawyer said, you're always negative, you don't want to do an autobiography, you don't want to do this, you know, then write something.
I wrote something, but I didn't show it to my lawyer, because I didn't trust him to give the judgment.
So when I had a hundred pages, I called Bob, and I said, Bob, I have been solicited to do, you know, the awful gossipy biography, to do the stupid book on style, the book that wouldn't be mine about photography, but...
But it's true, they did have a point when they said, you're always negative, and you turn down things just with this negative attitude, and not too many people have this opportunity.
So I said, I wrote 100 pages.
You tell me if you think that they are valid, and it's going to be quite a light book, but if it is stupid or too personal, just tell me what you think.
He read it, and he said, I like it a lot, and I'd like to be your editor.
But you have to write another 200 pages.
And so I did.
And then when we had this manuscript of about 250, I never arrived at three.
So he freelanced it for Random House?
Yes.
Because normally they have their own editors, so they went out and... No.
I talked to Bob to say about... Once I wrote 100 pages, I said, I'm not going to keep on writing if this is not going anywhere.
Random House agreed to hire him as the editor for the book.
Yeah, he took it to Random House.
I just worked with him.
Oh, I see.
I just sent Bob the hundred pages.
He said, you continue it, and I'm going to be your editor, but you first finish the book, so I know if we have a book.
So I finished the book, and then I gave him the manuscript, and he said, we'll go to Random.
And, you know, it was easy.
It was easy once he, you know.
Yeah, it was Knopf, which is part of Random.
He was the editor of Knopf.
Knopf, yes.
But he thought he wasn't a book for Knopf.
He went directly to Random.
No, it couldn't be better.
It's wonderful.
Listen, I have to deliver you downstairs in a few minutes.
Would you inscribe this for me?
Sure, thanks.
Thank you very much.
She asked me to have you downstairs.